July news Update (#573)
pathoplexus/pathoplexus: monorepo/website/src/pages/news/2025-07-14-july-update.mdx

---
layout: ../../layouts/MdLayout.astro
title: "Pathoplexus July Update"
---

<div>
    <a href="/news">News</a> > <b>Pathoplexus July Update</b>
</div>

# Pathoplexus July Update

*By the Pathoplexus Team - 14 July 2025*

> For many at Pathoplexus, summer is now in full swing (and winter well underway for many others) - and we’re happy to bring another news update! The past few months have been particularly exciting as we’ve seen an incredible increase in direct submissions from around the world, as well as the addition of some great new features - all set in the background of our continuous effort to improve Pathoplexus for the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For many at Pathoplexus, summer is now in full swing (and winter well underway for many others) - and we’re happy to bring another news update! The past few months have been particularly exciting as we’ve seen an incredible increase in direct submissions from around the world, as well as the addition of some great new features - all against the backdrop of our continuous effort to improve Pathoplexus for the community.
```

- For RSV-A, 1,089 sequences were shared from [Clinical Virology, Basel, Switzerland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-a/search?visibility_groupName=true&visibility_submittedAtTimestamp=true&submittedAtTimestampTo=1750982399&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=430); [National Virus Reference Laboratory, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-a/search?visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=463); [Laboratorio de Salud Publica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-a/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=531); and [Institut de Recerca, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Spain](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-a/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&releasedAtTimestampFrom=1751288450&isRevocation=&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=540&releasedAtTimestampTo=1752278399)

> - For RSV-B, 1,060 sequences were shared from [Clinical Virology, Basel, Switzerland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_submittedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupName=true&column_submittedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=430); [National Virus Reference Laboratory, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=463); [Laboratorio de Salud Publica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=531); and [Institut de Recerca, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Spain](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&releasedAtTimestampFrom=1751288992&releasedAtTimestampTo=1752278399&isRevocation=&visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=540)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For RSV-B, 1,060 sequences were shared from [Clinical Virology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_submittedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupName=true&column_submittedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=430); [National Virus Reference Laboratory, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=463); [Laboratorio de Salud Publica, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=531); and [Institut de Recerca, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Spain](https://pathoplexus.org/rsv-b/search?visibility_releasedAtTimestamp=true&releasedAtTimestampFrom=1751288992&releasedAtTimestampTo=1752278399&isRevocation=&visibility_groupName=true&visibility_groupId=true&groupId=540)
```

### Past talks:

- Emma Hodcroft spoke about Pathoplexus at at [Dynamics & Evolution of Human Viruses](https://dynamicsevolution.org/event/5/) (6-9 May, Asnières-sur-Oise, France)
- Chaoran Chen spoke about Loculus at [Applied Bioinformatics & Public Health Microbiology (ABPHM)](https://coursesandconferences.wellcomeconnectingscience.org/event/applied-bioinformatics-public-health-microbiology-20250521/) (21-23 May, Hinxton, UK)
- Emma Hodcroft spoke about data sharing with Pathoplexus at the Swiss Pathogen Surveillance Platform (SPSP) annual meeting (10 June, Bern, Switzerland)
- Pathoplexus was excited to be invited to speak about the importance enabling of enabling fast, federated pathogen data sharing at [d/acc Berlin](https://lemonade.social/e/iumyMgJE), where Emma Hodcroft spoke (11 June, Berlin, Germany - [livestream recording](https://x.com/i/broadcasts/1jMJgkOdMnwJL))

> - Finally the Swiss Sarcoma Society was excited to hear about novel forms of data sharing during a talk on Pathoplexus by Emma Hodcroft (26 June, Lucerne, Switzerland)

Author: just added via a commit
